---
template: post
title: UML
slug: uml
draft: true
date: '2019-06-10T12:00:00.000Z'
description: >-
  UML
category: Dev Tools
tags:
  - UML
  - Developer Tools
---

# Intro

- History

Multiple modellling techniques.
No common standard.
hence, one group called OMG created standardized UML.

- Communication

Different roles like Product Owner, Business Analyst, Architect, Operations, Quality Assurance, Developer. All need to communicate clearly and make sure everyone understands the same meaning. Terms use by business people and by technical people are bit different.

Common Language of communication
Often people are working remotely and we need to make sure that those who are not in the meeting are also communicated exactly same thing.

- Tools

Informal tools like whiteboard.

Here we are suppose to create models. diagrams.

# Basics

- Types of models
- Basic Building Blocks
- Common Extensions
- Key Considerations

## Structural Modelling

- Things
    - Physical
    - Conceptual
- Static Parts
- Nouns
- Diagrams
    - Class
    - Component
    - Package
    - Deployment


## Behavioral Modeling

- Functionality
    - Process
    - Interactions
- Dynamic Parts
- Verbs
- Diagrams
    - Use Case
    - Sequence
    - State
    - Activity


## Basic Building Blocks

- Things
- Relationships

- Things
    - Class
    - Use Case
    - Component
    - Node

- Messages , States, and Actions
- Relationships
    - Association
    - Generalization
    - Implementation
    - Dependency


## Common Extensions

- Annotations/ Notes
- Streotype
- Iconic Streotype

## Key Considerations

- Keep diagram clean
    - Readable
        Number of lines crossing each other should be minimum.
    - Focused
        What is needed must be there and nothing extra.
    - Precise
        Make sure everyone understand the same meaning.
- Goals
    - Visualize
    - Specify
    - Document
- Keep the audience in mind



# Structural Modelling

- Structural Diagram
    Blueprint
- Class Diagram
    Identifies the vocabulary and relationships
- Component Diagram
- Package Diagram
- Deployment Diagram



## Component Diagram

- Identify Interfaces
- Define replaceable parts


## Deployment Diagrams

Map components to physical systems
View special devices
Visualize hardware and network dependencies.
Big picture of how the system is functioning

# Behavioral Modelling

- Behavioral Diagrams
- Use Case Diagrams
- Sequence Diagram
- State Diagram
- Activity Diagram

How the components interact with each other.
What our system does and how.

## Use Case Diagram

- User Tasks
- System Interactions
- What not how

## Sequence Diagrams

- Time ordered messages between objects

## State Diagram

- Model states of an object
- Reactive objects
- Transitions


## Activity Diagram

- Workflows
- Operations

- Actions and Activities
Action is a single step. Logically a single operation which cannot be broken down.
Activities can be decomposed in smaller diagram.

- Flow Control
    - Decision/ Branch
    - Fork and join

Collaboration of technical and business people.

---



Stereotypes -> short comments to describe

Use case diagram leads to creation of user story.
activity diagram shows the steps involved in the user story.

hourglass icon to show time elapsed

split icon to show different paths

diamond icon can be either split or merge.

start and end icon.

square brackets to show guards.

First make the interaction diagrams then go towards class diagrams


\- Ayush 🙂

---
# Missing videos
20-sequence diagram
17-summary of structural diagram